# Course components

## Video lectures

There are two video lectures per week. We expect you to watch these and take
notes. The content of the video lectures will be discussed during the reading
groups. Class activities are designed to help you master the relevant materials.

## Homework

The path to a good visualization design in your projects is likely to involve
mistakes and wrong turns. It is therefore important to recognize that mistakes
are valuable in finding the path to a solution, to broadly explore the design
space, and to iterate designs to improve possible solutions. Weekly homework is
going to provide an opportunity to learn these design skills and to test your
understanding of the material. The homework is designed to support you in
developing later projects.

## Homework formats

When handing in homework make sure to always do the following:

* For reports or answers to questions (both for the readings and the homework)
  hand them in as A4 sized PDF files. Include your name and student number on
  the top of the first page, and include a title that makes clear which 
  homework assignment / project proposals / project reports / reading it is
  about. When using Microsoft office export your document to PDF (or use the
  print to PDF function).

* For programs, include you name and student number in the a comment on top
  of each of the files you wrote. (Do not change external libraries that you
  use to include your name, obviously). Include all needed files into a zipfile
  or a tarball.

* For Javascript programs and webpages use local (and relative) links only. Do
  not link to a CDN (like Google's). 

* For webpages include your name and student number somewhere on the page (but
  well visible).

## Reading assignments

![Colin Ware](book-visual.jpg){:.inline}

There are reading assignments each week, taken from scientific literature and
from the book *Visual thinking for design* by Colin Ware. The content of each
week's reading assignment will be discussed during that week's reading group
meeting.

The homework assignments will contain questions about the mandatory readings.
When answering those please be brief and to the point!

## Reading group meetings and design critique sessions

To give you an opportunity to discuss the contents of each week's reading
assignment and video lectures a reading group meeting is organized each week.
Attendence to the reading group meetings is mandatory (you are allowed to 
miss one over the course of block 4). Discussing the readings and video
lectures should help in doing the homework.

The design critique sessions are organized each thursday to offer an opportunity
to discuss visualizations that are interesting. We will pick apart each 
visualization so that you may learn from them. Students are encouraged to
bring along visualizations they deem interesting.

## Labs

On Monday, there is a lab session where you can discuss your work with the
course's staff and get feedback on your earlier work. It is recommended that
you attend labs to get to know your fellow students and make use of each
other's understanding of the homework assignments and lectures.
